.TH FDX 1 "June 2026" "fdx" "Fish Functions"
.SH NAME
fdx \- fd + fzf + bat preview fuzzy file finder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fdx
[OPTIONS] [PATTERN]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfdx\fR is a fuzzy file/directory finder that combines \fBfd\fR, \fBfzf\fR,
and \fBbat\fR for interactive searching with preview. Results open in
\fBnvim\fR (or \fB$FDX_EDITOR\fR).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-query\fR, \fB\-q\fR \fIpattern\fR
Initial search pattern. Can also be passed as positional argument.
.TP
\fB\-\-query=\fIpattern\fR
Alternative form of \fB\-\-query\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-dir\fR, \fB\-d\fR \fIpath\fR
Root directory for search (default: current directory).
.TP
\fB\-\-dir=\fIpath\fR
Alternative form of \fB\-\-dir\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-type\fR, \fB\-t\fR \fIf|d|all\fR
Filter by file type: \fBf\fR (files, default), \fBd\fR (directories),
\fBall\fR (both).
.TP
\fB\-\-type=f|d|all\fR, \fB\-tf\fR, \fB\-td\fR
Shorthand forms of \fB\-\-type\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-hidden\fR, \fB\-H\fR
Include hidden files and directories.
.TP
\fB\-\-widget\fR
Output paths to stdout without launching an editor. Useful in command
substitutions.
.TP
\fB\-\-floating\fR
Floating window mode for use with Pypr/hyprland scratchpads. Calls
\fBpypr hide fdx-floating\fR on exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-opencode\fR
Enable OpenCode integration. Adds \fBCtrl+O\fR to send selected paths
to the OpenCode prompt bridger client.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR, \fB\-h\fR
Display usage information and exit.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.TP
Enter
Open selected files in editor (default: nvim). In command substitution or
\fB\-\-widget\fR mode, prints paths to stdout.
.TP
Ctrl+P
Paste selected paths to stdout.
.TP
Ctrl+Y
Yank selected paths to clipboard (wl-copy).
.TP
Ctrl+Space
Toggle file preview pane.
.TP
Tab
Select/deselect multiple rows.
.TP
Ctrl+H
Toggle hidden file visibility.
.TP
Ctrl+T
Cycle file type filter: files \(-> directories \(-> all.
.TP
\(<-/\(->
Scroll preview pane.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBFDX_EDITOR\fR
Custom editor command (e.g., \fBcode\fR, \fBemacs\fR). Default: \fBnvim\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B fdx
Launch interactive finder in current directory (files only).
.TP
.B fdx somefile
Search for files matching "somefile".
.TP
.B fdx \-\-hidden \-\-type d
Search hidden directories.
.TP
.B fdx \-\-dir ~/projects
Search in ~/projects directory.
.TP
.B fdx \-\-floating \-\-opencode
Launch in floating window with OpenCode integration.
.TP
.B nvim (fdx \-\-widget)
Use fdx output as argument to nvim.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fd (1),
.BR fzf (1),
.BR bat (1)
